---
author: Mark Mitchell
date: 2017-07-06
layout: post
tags: [meetups, meetup, group]
title: Thursday 6th July
---

The object of today's meetup - for Patrick and me, at least - was to do some pair programming and see what all the fuss is about. Neither of us had much experience of this, and I have to admit that I didn't enjoy it much. 

#### Pair Programming
I felt like I couldn't actually *think* without my hands on the keyboard tapping out placeholder code and flipping to MDN to check potentially applicable methods. So when I was 'driving' I felt flustered and stupid, unable to give coherent instructions. And when I was typing I was unable to stop myself running off with a notion and ignoring what my partner was trying to tell me. (and then failing anyway!)

So, a bit demoralising really - but just because something doesn't meet my current expectations of FUN doesn't mean it's not worthwhile. In fact, I suspect there are some important lessons to learn here... about clarity of thought, and communication, having a bit more of a meditative approach, I don't know. 

We're both up for having another go, so I obvioulsy didn't test Pat's patience too much.

## Attendance

Quite a few folk who had intended to come along wer unable in the end, but four is a respectable turnout. The other 50% comprised [Ashton](https://github.com/ashtonsix) who has joined the meetups while I was on paternity leave, and Sam for whom I currently have no way of finding on online presence!

#### Ashton
Ashton is - to my eyes - pretty far advanced; he's working for web app studio and has created several react libraries, like his [fractal mirror](https://github.com/beyond-labs/react-mirror) approach to tracking state. He also explained his tool for avoiding performance impacts caused by re-rendering components due to a change in props that is functionally identical to what the current render is based on. IIRC it prevents re-rendering by identifying where code is generated by the same factory function... I hope Ashton will forgive me if I've not characterised that properly - the details are somewhat beyond me!

#### Sam
I didn't get a good look at what Sam was doing, but it's an app that displays medical information in some form or other. I hope to see it in a bit more detail at a future meetup!

Mark 

